README.md, before:

# Repo resource

Track changes in a [repo](https://gerrit.googlesource.com/git-repo/+/master/#repo) project.

## Source configuration

* `url`: *Required.* manifest repository location.

* `revision`: *Optional.* manifest branch or revision (use `HEAD` for default).

* `name`: *Optional.* initial manifest file. (use `default.xml` for default).

* `private_key`: *Optional.* Private key to use when pulling/pushing.
    Should be newline (`\n`) terminated.
    Note that keys requiring a passphrase are un-supported.
    Example:

    ```yaml
    private_key: |
      -----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
      MIIEowIBAAKCAQEAtCS10/f7W7lkQaSgD/mVeaSOvSF9ql4hf/zfMwfVGgHWjj+W
      <Lots more text>
      DWiJL+OFeg9kawcUL6hQ8JeXPhlImG6RTUffma9+iGQyyBMCGd1l
      -----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
    ```

* `depth`: *Optional.* shallow clone with a history truncated to the specified number of commits.
    Defaults to full git clone for each project.

### Example

Resource configuration for a public project using repo (Android)

```yaml
resource_types:
- name: repo
  type: registry-image
  source:
    repository: mkorpershoek/repo-resource

resources:
- name: aosp
  type: repo
  check_every: 2h # default of 1min seems too frequent
  source:
    url: https://android.googlesource.com/platform/manifest
    branch: master
    name: default.xml
    depth: 1 # use shallow clone for faster syncing
```

## Behavior

### `check`: Check for new versions in each project under a manifest

Repo init and repo sync are called for a given manifest.
After that, `--revision-as-HEAD` is called to capture the HEADs of each each project.
The whole list of projects is returned as a "manifest version".

### `in`: Syncs the repository, for a given manifest version

Repo syncs the repo to the destination, and locks it down to a given manifest
version.
It will return the same given ref as version.

### `out`: No-op

Out is not implemented.


## Contributing/development

### Rebuilding the docker image

```
make
```

### Publish to docker hub

```
make push
```

### Unit testing

Use `make test` for running the unit(integration) tests:
```
make test
```

If you wish to run a single test, just edit the `Dockerfile.development`:

```diff
diff --git a/Dockerfile.development b/Dockerfile.development
index 81fbb349c014..431f07b59917 100644
--- a/Dockerfile.development
+++ b/Dockerfile.development
@@ -4,4 +4,4 @@ FROM repo-resource:latest
 COPY repo_resource /root/repo_resource
 COPY development/ssh/ /root/development/ssh/
 WORKDIR /root/
-CMD python -m unittest
+CMD python -m unittest repo_resource.test_check.TestCheck.test_branch_defaults_to_HEAD
```

### Local concourse instance and docker registry.

It's also possible to use a local docker registry (instead of docker hub) for development.
This allows closer "end-to-end" testing on a development workstation.

This section assumes that you've installed `docker` and `docker-compose` as documented in
https://concourse-ci.org/getting-started.html

1. Start by running a concourse development instance and install `fly`:
   ```
   curl -O https://concourse-ci.org/docker-compose.yml
   docker-compose up -d

   curl 'http://localhost:8080/api/v1/cli?arch=amd64&platform=linux' -o fly \
       && chmod +x ./fly && mv ./fly /usr/local/bin/

   fly -t tutorial login -c http://localhost:8080 -u test -p test
   ```
   See https://concourse-ci.org/quick-start.html#docker-compose-concourse for details

2. Start your local docker registry:
   ```
   # retrieve the concourse container's network name
   container_name=$(docker ps --filter 'ancestor=concourse/concourse' --format "{{.Names}}")
   network_name=$(docker container inspect $name -f "{{.HostConfig.NetworkMode}}" $container_name)
   docker run --network ${network_name} -d -p 5000:5000 --name registry registry:2
   ```
   See https://www.docker.com/blog/how-to-use-your-own-registry-2/ for more information

3. Rebuild and publish your docker image to the local registry:
   ```
   make dev-push
   ```

4. Get the IP address of your `registry` container. This is needed because the `concourse/concourse`
   container seems unable to lookup by hostname address:
   ```
   registry_container_id=$(docker ps --no-trunc --filter "name=registry" --format="{{.ID}}")
   docker inspect --format='{{range .NetworkSettings.Networks}}{{println .IPAddress}}{{end}}' ${registry_container_id}
   ```

   Note the IP address (`172.20.0.4` in this example).

5. Publish a development job with `fly` using the [development `pipeline.yml`](./development/pipeline.yml)
   ```
   fly -t tutorial set-pipeline -p development -c development/pipeline.yml
   fly -t tutorial unpause-pipeline -p development
   fly -t tutorial check-resource -r development/aosp-tools
   ```

   Note: eventually, you'll have to patch `development/pipeline.yml` with the IP address from step 4.

Commit message:

common: add jobs source configuration option
By default, repo sync will run as many jobs as the amount of CPU cores on the
host machine.

This is fine for smaller development machines, but for some pipelines might want
to adjust this. For example, when rate-limiting is applied.

Add a 'jobs' source configuration field to do so.

Signed-off-by: Mattijs Korpershoek <mkorpershoek@baylibre.com>

README.md, after:

# Repo resource

Track changes in a [repo](https://gerrit.googlesource.com/git-repo/+/master/#repo) project.

## Source configuration

* `url`: *Required.* manifest repository location.

* `revision`: *Optional.* manifest branch or revision (use `HEAD` for default).

* `name`: *Optional.* initial manifest file. (use `default.xml` for default).

* `private_key`: *Optional.* Private key to use when pulling/pushing.
    Should be newline (`\n`) terminated.
    Note that keys requiring a passphrase are un-supported.
    Example:

    ```yaml
    private_key: |
      -----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
      MIIEowIBAAKCAQEAtCS10/f7W7lkQaSgD/mVeaSOvSF9ql4hf/zfMwfVGgHWjj+W
      <Lots more text>
      DWiJL+OFeg9kawcUL6hQ8JeXPhlImG6RTUffma9+iGQyyBMCGd1l
      -----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
    ```

* `depth`: *Optional.* shallow clone with a history truncated to the specified number of commits.
    Defaults to full git clone for each project.

* `jobs`: *Optional.* number of jobs to run in parallel (default: 0; based on number of CPU cores)
   Reduce this if you observe network errors.

### Example

Resource configuration for a public project using repo (Android)

```yaml
resource_types:
- name: repo
  type: registry-image
  source:
    repository: mkorpershoek/repo-resource

resources:
- name: aosp
  type: repo
  check_every: 2h # default of 1min seems too frequent
  source:
    url: https://android.googlesource.com/platform/manifest
    branch: master
    name: default.xml
    depth: 1 # use shallow clone for faster syncing
    jobs: 4  # run with -j4
```

## Behavior

### `check`: Check for new versions in each project under a manifest

Repo init and repo sync are called for a given manifest.
After that, `--revision-as-HEAD` is called to capture the HEADs of each each project.
The whole list of projects is returned as a "manifest version".

### `in`: Syncs the repository, for a given manifest version

Repo syncs the repo to the destination, and locks it down to a given manifest
version.
It will return the same given ref as version.

### `out`: No-op

Out is not implemented.


## Contributing/development

### Rebuilding the docker image

```
make
```

### Publish to docker hub

```
make push
```

### Unit testing

Use `make test` for running the unit(integration) tests:
```
make test
```

If you wish to run a single test, just edit the `Dockerfile.development`:

```diff
diff --git a/Dockerfile.development b/Dockerfile.development
index 81fbb349c014..431f07b59917 100644
--- a/Dockerfile.development
+++ b/Dockerfile.development
@@ -4,4 +4,4 @@ FROM repo-resource:latest
 COPY repo_resource /root/repo_resource
 COPY development/ssh/ /root/development/ssh/
 WORKDIR /root/
-CMD python -m unittest
+CMD python -m unittest repo_resource.test_check.TestCheck.test_branch_defaults_to_HEAD
```

### Local concourse instance and docker registry.

It's also possible to use a local docker registry (instead of docker hub) for development.
This allows closer "end-to-end" testing on a development workstation.

This section assumes that you've installed `docker` and `docker-compose` as documented in
https://concourse-ci.org/getting-started.html

1. Start by running a concourse development instance and install `fly`:
   ```
   curl -O https://concourse-ci.org/docker-compose.yml
   docker-compose up -d

   curl 'http://localhost:8080/api/v1/cli?arch=amd64&platform=linux' -o fly \
       && chmod +x ./fly && mv ./fly /usr/local/bin/

   fly -t tutorial login -c http://localhost:8080 -u test -p test
   ```
   See https://concourse-ci.org/quick-start.html#docker-compose-concourse for details

2. Start your local docker registry:
   ```
   # retrieve the concourse container's network name
   container_name=$(docker ps --filter 'ancestor=concourse/concourse' --format "{{.Names}}")
   network_name=$(docker container inspect $name -f "{{.HostConfig.NetworkMode}}" $container_name)
   docker run --network ${network_name} -d -p 5000:5000 --name registry registry:2
   ```
   See https://www.docker.com/blog/how-to-use-your-own-registry-2/ for more information

3. Rebuild and publish your docker image to the local registry:
   ```
   make dev-push
   ```

4. Get the IP address of your `registry` container. This is needed because the `concourse/concourse`
   container seems unable to lookup by hostname address:
   ```
   registry_container_id=$(docker ps --no-trunc --filter "name=registry" --format="{{.ID}}")
   docker inspect --format='{{range .NetworkSettings.Networks}}{{println .IPAddress}}{{end}}' ${registry_container_id}
   ```

   Note the IP address (`172.20.0.4` in this example).

5. Publish a development job with `fly` using the [development `pipeline.yml`](./development/pipeline.yml)
   ```
   fly -t tutorial set-pipeline -p development -c development/pipeline.yml
   fly -t tutorial unpause-pipeline -p development
   fly -t tutorial check-resource -r development/aosp-tools
   ```

   Note: eventually, you'll have to patch `development/pipeline.yml` with the IP address from step 4.
